If we didn't have birthday, you wouldn't be you.
If you'd never been born, well then what would you do?
If you'd never been born, well then what would you be?
You might be a fish!
Or a toad in a tree!
You might be a doorknob!
Or three baked potatoes!
You might be a bag full of hard green tomatoes.
Or worse than all that...
Why, you might be a WASN'T!
A Wasn't has no fun at all.
No, he doesn't.
A Wasn't just isn't.
He just isn't present.
But you You ARE YOU!
And, now isn't that pleasant!
Today you are you!
That is truer than true!
There is no one alive who is you-er that you!
Shout loud, I am lucky to be what I am!
Thank goodness I'm not just a clam or a ham or a dusty
old jar of sour gooseberry jam!
I am what I am!
That's a great thing to be!
If I say so myself, HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO ME!

UP!
UP!
The sun is getting up.

The sun gets up.
So UP with you!

UP!
Ear number one...
Ear number two.

Up, heads!
Up, whiskers!
Tails!

Great day, today!
Great day
for
UP!

Up! Up!
You!
Open up
your eyes!
You worms!
You frogs!
You butterflies!

Up, whales!
Up, snails!
Up, rooster!
Hen!

Up!
Girls and women!
Boys and men!

Great day
for UP FEET!
Lefts and rights.

And Up! Up! Baseballs!
Footballs! Kites!

Great day to sing up on a wire.
UP!
Up, voices!
Louder! Higher!

Up stairs!
Up ladders!
Up on stilts!
Great day for up Mt. Dill-ma-dilts.

Everybody's doing UPs!
On bikes...
...and trees
...and buttercups.

Up! Up!
Waiters!
Alligators!
Up! Folks!
Up in elevators!

UP!
Up giraffes!
Great day for seals!
Great day for UP on ferris wheels!

Up! Up! Up!
Fill up the air.
Up, flags!
Balloons!
UP! Everywhere!

UP! UP! UP!
Great day for UP!

Wake every person, pig and pup,
till EVERYONE on earth is up!

Except for me.
Please go away.
No up.
I'm sleeping in today.

I am Sam.
Sam I am.

That Sam-I-am!
That Sam-I-am!
I do not like
That Sam-I-am!
Do you like
Green eggs and ham?
I do not like them,
Sam-I-am.
I do not like
Green eggs and ham.

Would you like them
Here or there?
I would not like them
Here or there.
I would not like them
Anywhere.
I do not like
Green eggs and ham.
I do not like them,
Sam-I-am.

Would you like them
In a house?
Would you like them
With a mouse?

I do not like them
In a house.
I do not like them
With a mouse.
I do not like them
Here or there.
I do not like them
Anywhere.
I do not like green eggs and ham.
I do not like them, Sam-I-am.
Would you eat them
In a box?
Would you eat them
With a fox?
Not in a box.
Not with a fox.
Not in a house.
Not with a mouse.
I would not eat them here or there.
I would not eat them anywhere.
I would not eat green eggs and ham.
I do not like them, Sam-I-am.
Would you? Could you?
In a car?
Eat them! Eat them!
Here they are.
I would not, could not,
In a car.
You may like them.
You will see.
You may like them
In a tree!

I would not, could not in a tree.
Not in a car! You let me be.
I do not like them in a box.
I do not like them with a fox.
I do not like them in a house.
I do not like them with a mouse.
I do not like them here or there.
I do not like them anywhere. I do not like green eggs and ham.

I do not like them, Sam-I-am.

UP PUP Pup is up.
CUP PUP Pup in cup.
PUP CUP Cup on pup.
MOUSE HOUSE Mouse on house.
HOUSE MOUSE House on mouse.
ALL TALL We all are tall.
ALL SMALL We all are small.
ALL BALL We all play ball.
BALL WALL Up on a wall.
ALL FALL Fall off the wall.
DAY PLAY We play all day.
NIGHT FIGHT We fight all night.

HE ME He is after me.
HIM JIM Jim is after him.
SEE BEE We see a bee.
SEE BEE THREE Now we see three.
THREE TREE Three fish in a tree.
Fish in a tree? How can that be?
RED RED They call me Red.
RED BED I am in bed.
RED NED TED and ED in BED
PAT PAT they call him Pat.
PAT SAT Pat sat on hat.
PAT CAT Pat sat on cat.
PAT BAT Pat sat on bat.
NO PAT NO Don't sit on that.
SAD DAD BAD HAD Dad is sad.
Very, very sad.
He had a bad day. What a day Dad had!
THING THING What is that thing?

THING SING That thing can sing!
SONG LONG A long, long song.
Good-by, Thing. You sing too long.
WALK WALK We like to walk.
WALK TALK We like to talk.
HOP POP We like to hop.
We like to hop on top of Pop.
STOP You must not hop on Pop.
Mr. BROWN Mrs. BROWN
Mr. Brown upside down.
Pup up. Brown down.
Pup is down. Where is Brown?
WHERE IS BROWN? THERE IS BROWN!
Mr. Brown is out of town.

BACK BLACK Brown came back.
Brown came back with Mr. Black.
SNACK SNACK Eat a snack.
Eat a snack with Brown and Black.

JUMP BUMP He jumped. He bumped.
FAST PAST He went past fast.
WENT TENT SENT He went into the tent.
I sent him out of the tent.

WET GET Two dogs get wet.
HELP YELP They yelp for help.
HILL WILL Will went up hill.
WILL HILL STILL Will is up hill still.

FATHER MOTHER SISTER BROTHER
That one is my other brother.
My brothers read a little bit.
Little words like If and it.
My father can read big words, too.
Like CONSTANTINOPLE and TIMBUKTU
SAY SAY What does this say?
seehemewe
patpup pop
hethreetreebee
tophopstop
Ask me tomorrow but not today.

Congratulations!
Today is your day.
You're off to Great Places!
You're off and away!

You have brains in your head.
You have feet in your shoes
You can steer yourself
Any direction you choose.
You're on your own. And you know what you know.
And YOU are the guy who'll decide where to go.

You'll look up and down streets. Look 'em over with care.
About some you will say, "I don't choose to go there."
With your head full of brains and your shoes full of feet,
You're too smart to go down any not-so-good street.

And you may not find any
You'll want to go down.
In that case, of course,
You'll head straight out of town.

It's opener there
In the wide open air.

Out there things can happen
And frequently do
To people as brainy
And footsy as you.

And when things start to happen,
Don't worry. Don't stew.
Just go right along.
You'll start happening too.

OH!
THE PLACES YOU'LL GO!

You'll be on your way up!
You'll be seeing great sights!
You'll join the high fliers
Who soar to high heights.

You won't lag behind, because you'll have the speed.
You'll pass the whole gang and you'll soon take the lead.
Wherever you fly, you'll be the best of the best.
Wherever you go, you will top all the rest.

Except when you don' t
Because, sometimes, you won't.


You'll get mixed up, of course,
As you already know.
You'll get mixed up
With many strange birds as you go.
So be sure when you step.
Step with care and great tact
And remember that Life's
A Great Balancing Act.
Just never forget to be dexterous and deft.
And never mix up your right foot with your left.

And will you succeed?
Yes! You will, indeed!
(98 and 3/4 percent guaranteed.)

KID, YOU'LL MOVE MOUNTAINS!

So...
Be your name Buxbaum or Bixby or Bray
Or Mordecai Ali Van Allen O'Shea,
You're off to Great Places!
Today is your day!
Your mountain is waiting.
So...get on your way!

Oh The thinks you can think!
Oh The thinks you can think if you're
willing to try.
Think invisible ink!
Or a Gink with a stink!
Or a stair to the sky
If you open your mind,
Oh, the thinks you will find lining up to get
loose....

Oh, the thinks you can think
when you think about Seuss!.....Seuss!.....
Seuss!
Seuss! Seuss! Seuss! Seuss! .....Seuss!

Oh the thinks you can think!
Any thinker who thinks can come up with
a few!
Oh the thinks you can think!
Think a trip on a ship to the Vipper of Vipp
Or to Solla Sollew
Think of beautiful Schlopp... With a cherry
on top!

You don't need an excuse!
Oh the thinks you can think
When you think about Seuss!
Seuss! Seuss! Seuss! Seuss!.............
Think of an elephant up in a tree,
Think of a person too tiny to see,
Think of a bird with a one feather tail
Going on adventure down a dangerous
trail!
Think of a bird who flies off on a spree!
Think of a kangaroo sour as can be!
Think of some monkeys with trouble in
store!
Think of something horrible and hairy
something sinister and scary that you
never dared to think of before!

Think of nobody here And the feeling of
fear
And the darkness of night Ooh
All alone in your room As you're facing
your doom
Think a glimmer of light! Ah!

But I hope you're prepared To be
scareder than scared!
ëCause this ain't Mother Goose!
Think right over the brink!
When you think about Seuss! Seuss
Seuss Seuss
Seuss Seuss Seuss Seuss

(spoken) An unusual story will soon be
unfurled
of an elephant trying to save a small world
And a boy from that world who has thinks
just like you! Just Think!
From the planet of Who And the smallest
of small
To the jungle of Nool And the largest of all

You think and think and think and think
and
think and think and think and think and
think and think and think and think and
think
Just Think!

Oh the thinks you can think
Think and wonder and dream Far and
wide as
you dare!
Oh the thinks you can think!
When your thinks have run dry In the blink
of an eye
There's another think there! If you open
your mind
Oh the thinks you will find Lining up to get
loose!
Oh, the thinks you can think Oh,
the thinks you can think
Oh, the thinks you can think Oh,
the thinks you can think
Oh, the thinks you can think
When you think about Seuss
When you think about Seuss
When you think about Seuss Seuss
Seuss!
about Seuss Seuss Seuss!
about Seuss Seuss Seuss!
Seuss!!


Left foot, Left foot
Right foot, Right.
Feet in the morning.
Feet at night.
Left foot, Left foot, Left foot, Right.
Wet foot, Dry foot.
High foot, Low foot.

Front feet, Back feet.
Red feet, Black feet.
Left foot, Right foot.
Feet, Feet, Feet.
How many, many
feet you meet.

Slow feet, Quick feet.
Trick feet, Sick feet.
Up feet, Down feet.
Here come clown feet.
Small feet, Big feet.
Here come pig feet.
His feet, Her feet.
Fuzzy fur feet.

In the house,
and on the street
how many, many
feet you meet.
Up in the air feet,
Over a chair feet.
More and more feet
Twenty-four feet
Here come
more and more
and more feet!
Left foot. Right foot.
Feet. Feet. Feet.
Oh, how many
feet you meet!

When I leave home to walk to school,
Dad always says to me,
"Marco, keep your eyelids up
And see what you can see."
But when I tell him where I've been
And what I think I've seen,
He looks at me and sternly says,
"Your eyesight's much too keen."
"Stop telling such outlandish tales.
Stop turning minnows into whales."
Now, what can I say
when I get home today?
All the long way to school
And all the way back,
I've looked and I've looked
And I've kept careful track.
But all that I've noticed, Except my own feet
Was a horse and a wagon on Mulberry Street.
That's nothing to tell of,
That won't do, of course....
Just a broken-down wagon
That's drawn by a horse.
That can't be my story. That's only a start.
I'll say that a ZEBRA was pulling that cart!
And that is a story that no one can beat,
When I say that I saw it on Mulberry Street.
Yes, the zebra is fine,
But I think it's a shame,
Such a marvelous beast
With a cart that's so tame.
The story would really be better to hear
If the driver I saw there were a charioteer.
A gold and blue chariot's something to meet,
Rumbling like thunder down Mulberry Street.
No, it won't do at all... a zebra's too small.
A reindeer is better; he's fast and he's fleet,
And he'd look mighty smart
On old Mulberry Street.
Hold on a minute! There's something wrong!
A reindeer hates the way it feels
To pull a thing that runs on wheels.
He'd be much happier, instead,
If he could pull a fancy sled.
Hmmm.. A reindeer and a sleigh..
Say-anyone could think ofthat,
Jack or Fred of Joe or Nat--
Say, even Jane could think of that.
But it isn't too late to make one little change.
A sleigh and an ELEPHANT!
There's something strange!
Say! That makes a story that no one can beat,
When I say that I saw it on Mulberry Street.
But now I don't know... It still doesn't seem right.
An elephant pulling a think that's so light
Would whip it around in the air like a kite.
But he'd look simply grand
With a great big brass band!
A band that's so good should have someone to hear it,
But it's going so fast that it's hard to keep near it.
I'll put on a trailer! I know they won't mind
If a man sits and listens while hitched on behind.
But now is it fair? Is it fair what I've done?
I'll bet those wagons weigh more than a ton.
That's really too heavy a load for one beast;
I'll give him some helpers. He needs two, at least.
But now what worries me is this..
Mulberry Street runs into Bliss.
Unless there's something I can fix up,
There'll be an awful traffic mix-up!
It takes Police to do the trick,
To guide them through where traffic's thick ñ
It takes Police to do the trick.
They'll never crash now, They'll race at top speed.
With Sergeant Mulvaney, himself, in the lead.
The Mayor is there, And he thinks it is grand,
And he raises his hat as they dash by the stand.
The Mayor is there and the Aldermen too,
All waving big banners of red, white and blue.
And that is a story that NO ONE can beat
When I say that I saw it on Mulberry Street!
With a roar of its motor an airplane appears
And dumps out confetti while everyone cheers
And that makes a story that's really not bad!
But it still could be better. Suppose that I add...
A Chinaman who eats with sticks...
A big Magician doing tricks..
A ten-foot beard that needs a comb...
No time for more, I'm almost home.
I swung 'round the corner and dashed through the gate, I
ran up the steps and I felt simply GREAT!
For I had a story that NO ONE could beat!
And to think that I saw it on Mulberry Street!
But Dad said quite calmly,
"just draw up your stool"
and tell me the sights on
the way home from school" There was so much to tell, I
JUST COULDN'T BEGIN! Dad looked at me sharply
and pulled at his chin.
He frowned at me sternly from there in his seat, "was
there nothing to look at..No people to greet?
Did nothing excite you or make your heart beat?"
"Nothing," I said, growing read as a beet,
"But a plain horse and wagon on Mulberry Street."

Fox
Socks
Box
Knox

Knox in box.
Fox in socks.

Knox on fox in socks in box.

Socks on Knox and Knox in box.

Fox in socks on box on Knox.

Chicks with bricks come.
Chicks with blocks come.
Chicks with bricks and blocks and clocks come.

Look, sir.  Look, sir.  Mr. Knox, sir.
Let's do tricks with bricks and blocks, sir.
Let's do tricks with chicks and clocks, sir.

First, I'll make a quick trick brick stack.
Then I'll make a quick trick block stack.

You can make a quick trick chick stack.
You can make a quick trick clock stack.

And here's a new trick, Mr. Knox....
Socks on chicks and chicks on fox.
Fox on clocks on bricks and blocks.
Bricks and blocks on Knox on box.

Now we come to ticks and tocks, sir.
Try to say this Mr. Knox, sir....

Clocks on fox tick.
Clocks on Knox tock.
Six sick bricks tick.
Six sick chicks tock.

Please, sir.  I don't like this trick, sir.
My tongue isn't quick or slick, sir.
I get all those ticks and clocks, sir,
mixed up with the chicks and tocks, sir.
I can't do it, Mr. Fox, sir.

I'm so sorry, Mr. Knox, sir.

Here's an easy game to play.
Here's an easy thing to say....

New socks.
Two socks.
Whose socks?
Sue's socks.

Who sews whose socks?
Sue sews Sue's socks.

Who sees who sew whose new socks, sir?
You see Sue sew Sue's new socks, sir.

That's not easy, Mr. Fox, sir.

Who comes? ...
Crow comes.
Slow Joe Crow comes.

Who sews crow's clothes?
Sue sews crow's clothes.
Slow Joe Crow sews whose clothes?
Sue's clothes.

Sue sews socks of fox in socks now.

Slow Joe Crow sews Knox in box now.

Sue sews rose on Slow Joe Crow's clothes.
Fox sews hose on Slow Joe Crow's nose.

Hose goes.
Rose grows.
Nose hose goes some.
Crow's rose grows some.

Mr. Fox!
I hate this game, sir.
This game makes my tongue quite lame, sir.

Mr. Knox, sir, what a shame, sir.

We'll find something new to do now.
Here is lots of new blue goo now.
New goo.  Blue goo.
Gooey.  Gooey.
Blue goo.  New goo.
Gluey. Gluey.

Gooey goo for chewy chewing!
That's what that Goo-Goose is doing.
Do you choose to chew goo, too, sir?
If, sir, you, sir, choose to chew, sir,
with the Goo-Goose, chew, sir.
Do, sir.

Mr. Fox, sir,
I won't do it.
I can't say.
I won't chew it.

Very well, sir.
Step this way.
We'll find another game to play.

Bim comes.
Ben comes.
Bim brings Ben broom.
Ben brings Bim broom.

Ben bends Bim's broom.
Bim bends Ben's broom.
Bim's bends.
Ben's bends.
Ben's bent broom breaks.
Bim's bent broom breaks.

Ben's band.  Bim's band.
Big bands.  Pig bands.

Bim and Ben lead bands with brooms.
Ben's band bangs and Bim's band booms.

Pig band!  Boom band!
Big band!  Broom band!
My poor mouth can't say that.  No, sir.
My poor mouth is much too slow, sir.

Well then... bring your mouth this way.
I'll find it something it can say.

Luke Luck likes lakes.
Luke's duck likes lakes.
Luke Luck licks lakes.
Luck's duck licks lakes.

Duck takes licks in lakes Luke Luck likes.
Luke Luck takes licks in lakes duck likes.

I can't blab such blibber blubber!
My tongue isn't make of rubber.

Mr. Knox.  Now come now.  Come now.
You don't have to be so dumb now....

Try to say this, Mr. Knox, please....

Through three cheese trees three free fleas flew.
While these fleas flew, freezy breeze blew.
Freezy breeze made these three trees freeze.
Freezy trees made these trees' cheese freeze.
That's what made these three free fleas sneeze.

Stop it!  Stop it!
That's enough, sir.
I can't say such silly stuff, sir.

Very well, then, Mr. Knox, sir.

Let's have a little talk about tweetle beetles....

What do you know about tweetle beetles?  Well...

When tweetle beetles fight,
it's called a tweetle beetle battle.

And when they battle in a puddle,
it's a tweetle beetle puddle battle.

AND when tweetle beetles battle with paddles in a puddle,
they call it a tweetle beetle puddle paddle battle.

AND...

When beetles battle beetles in a puddle paddle battle
and the beetle battle puddle is a puddle in a bottle...
...they call this a tweetle beetle bottle puddle paddle battle muddle.

AND...

When beetles fight these battles in a bottle with their paddles
and the bottle's on a poodle and the poodle's eating noodles...
...they call this a muddle puddle tweetle poodle beetle noodle
bottle paddle battle.

AND...

Now wait a minute, Mr. Socks Fox!

When a fox is in the bottle where the tweetle beetles battle
with their paddles in a puddle on a noodle-eating poodle,
THIS is what they call...

...a tweetle beetle noodle poodle bottled paddled
muddled duddled fuddled wuddled fox in socks, sir!

Fox in socks, our game is done, sir.
Thank you for a lot of fun, sir.

Now, the Star-Belly Sneetches
Had bellies with stars.
The Plain-Belly Sneetches
Had none upon thars.
Those stars weren't so big. They were really so small
You might think such a thing wouldn't matter at all.
But, because they had stars, all the Star-Belly Sneetches
Would brag, "We're the best kind of Sneetch on the beaches."
With their snoots in the air, they would sniff and they'd snort
ìWe'll have nothing to do with the Plain-Belly sort!"
And whenever they met some, when they were out walking,
They'd hike right on past them without even talking.

When the Star-Belly children went out to play ball,
Could a Plain-Belly get in the game...? Not at all.
You could only play if your bellies had stars
And the Plain-Belly children had none upon thars.

When the Star-Belly Sneetches had frankfurter roasts
Or picnics or parties or marshmallow toasts,
They never invited the Plain-Belly Sneetches.
They left them out cold, in the dark of the beaches.
They kept them away. Never let them come near.
And that's how they treated them year after year.

Then ONE day, it seems...while the Plain-Belly Sneetches
Were moping and doping alone on the beaches,
Just sitting there wishing their bellies had stars...
A stranger zipped up in the strangest of cars!

"My friends," he announced in a voice clear and keen,
"My name is Sylvester McMonkey McBean.
And I've heard of your troubles. I've heard you're unhappy.
But I can fix that. I'm the Fix-it-Up Chappie.
I've come here to help you. I have what you need.
And my prices are low. And I work at great speed.
And my work is one hundred per cent guaranteed!"

Then, quickly, Sylvester McMonkey McBean
Put together a very peculiar machine.
And he said, "You want stars like a Star-Belly Sneetch...?
My friends, you can have them for three dollars each!î

ìJust pay me your money and hop right aboard!"
So they clambered inside. Then the big machine roared
And it clonked. And it bonked. And it jerked. And it berked
And it bopped them about. But the thing really worked!
When the Plain-Belly Sneetches popped out, they had stars!
They actually did. They had stars upon thars!

Then they yelled at the ones who had stars from the start,
"We're exactly like you! You can't tell us apart.
We're all just the same, now, you snooty old smarties!
And now we can go to your frankfurter parties."

"Good grief!" groaned the ones who had stars at the first.
"We're still the best Sneetches and they are the worst.
But, now, how in the world will we know," they all frowned,
"If which kind is what, or the other way round?"

Then up came McBean with a very sly wink
And he said, "Things are not quite as bad as you think.
So you don't know who's who. Thatís perfectly true.
But come with me, friends. Do you know what I'll do?
I'll make you, again, the best Sneetches on beaches
And all it will cost you is ten dollars eaches.î

Belly stars are no longer in style," said McBean.
"What you need is a trip through my Star-Off machine.
This wondrous contraption will take off your stars
So you won't look like Sneetches who have them on thars."
And that handy machine
Working very precisely
Removed all the stars from their tummies quite nicely.

Then, with snoots in the air, they paraded about
And they opened their beaks and they let out a shout,
"We know who is who! Now there isn't a doubt.
The best kind of Sneetches are Sneetches without!"

Then, of course, those with stars all got frightfully mad.
To be wearing a star now was frightfully bad.
Then, of course, old Sylvester McMonkey McBean
Invited them into his Star-Off Machine.

Then, of course from then on, as you probably guess,
Things really got into a horrible mess.

All the rest of that day, on those wild screaming beaches,
The Fix-it-Up Chappie kept fixing up Sneetches.
Off again! On again!

In again! Out again!
Through the machines they raced round and about again,
Changing their stars every minute or two.
They kept paying money. They kept running through
Until neither the Plain nor the Star-Bellies knew
Whether this one was that one...or that one was this one
Or which one was what one...or what one was who.

Then, when every last cent
Of their money was spent,
The Fix-it-Up Chappie packed up
And he went.

And he laughed as he drove
In his car up the beach,
"They never will learn.
No. You can't teach a Sneetch!"

But McBean was quite wrong. I'm quite happy to say
The Sneetches got really quite smart on that day,
The day they decided that Sneetches are Sneetches
And no kind of Sneetch is the best on the beaches.
That day, all the Sneetches forgot about stars
And whether they had one, or not, upon thars.

On the far-away island of Sala-ma-Sond,
Yertle the Turtle was king of the pond.
A nice little pond.  It was clean.  It was neat.
The water was warm.  There was plenty to eat.
The turtles had everything turtles might need.
And they were all happy.  Quite happy indeed.

They were... untill Yertle, the king of them all,
Decided the kingdom he ruled was too small.
"I'm ruler", said Yertle, "of all that I see.
But I don't see enough.  That's the trouble with me.
With this stone for a throne, I look down on my pond
But I cannot look down on the places beyond.
This throne that I sit on is too, too low down.
It ought to be higher!" he said with a frown.
"If I could sit high, how much greater I'd be!
What a king! I'd be ruler of all that I see!"

So Yertle, the Turtle King, lifted his hand
And Yertle, the Turtle King, gave a command.
He ordered nine turtles to swim to his stone
And, using these turtles, he built a new throne.
He made each turtle stand on another one's back
And he piled them all up in a nine-turtle stack.
And then Yertle climbed up.  He sat down on the pile.
What a wonderful view! He could see 'most a mile!

"All mine!" Yertle cried.  "Oh, the things I now rule!
I'm the king of a cow! And I'm the king of a mule!
I'm the king of a house! And, what's more, beyond that
I'm the king of a blueberry bush and a cat!
I'm Yertle the Turtle! Oh, marvelous me!
For I am the ruler of all that I see!"

And all through the morning, he sat up there high
Saying over and over, "A grat king am I!"
Until 'long about noon.  Then he heard a faint sigh.
"What's that?" snapped the king
And he looked down the stack.
And he saw, at the bottom, a turtle named Mack.
Just a part of his throne.  And this plain little turtle
Looked up and he said, "Beg your pardon, King Yertle.
I've pains in my back and my shoulders and knees.
How long must we stand here, Your Majesty, please?"

"SILENCE!" the King of the Turtles barked back.
"I'm king, and you're only a turtle named Mack."

"You stay in your place while I sit here and rule.
I'm the king of a cow! And I'm the king of a mule!
I'm the king of a house! And a bush! And a cat!
But that isn't all.  I'll do better than that!
My throne shall be higher!" his royal voice thundered,
"So pile up more turtles! I want 'bout two hundred!"

"Turtles! More turtles!" he bellowed and brayed.
And the turtles 'way down in the pond were afraid.
They trembled.  They shook.  But they came.  They obeyed.
>From all over the pond, they came swimming by dozens.
Whole families of turtles, with uncles and cousins.
And all of them stepped on the head of poor Mack.
One after another, they climbed up the stack.

Then Yertle the Turtle was perched up so high,
He could see fourty miles from his throne in the sky!
"Hooray!" shouted Yertle.  "I'm the king of the trees!
I'm king of the birds! And I'm king of the bees!
I'm king of the butterflies! King of the air!
Ah, me! What a throne! What a wonderful chair!
I'm Yertle the Turtle! Oh, marvelous me!
For I am the ruler of all that I see!"

Then again, from below, in the great heavy stack,
Came a groan from that plain little turtle named Mack.
"Your Majesty, please... I don't like to complain,
But down here below, we are feeling great pain.
I know, up on top you are seeing great sights,
But down here at the bottom we, too, should have rights.
We turtles can't stand it.  Our shells will all crack!
Besides, we need food.  We are starving!" groaned Mack.

"You hush up your mouth!" howled the mighty King Yertle.
"You've no right to talk to the world's highest turtle.
I rule from the clouds! Over land! Over sea!
There's nothing, no, NOTHING, that's higher than me!"

But, while he was shouting, he saw with suprise
That the moon of the evening was starting to rise
Up over his head in the darkening skies.
"What's THAT?" snorted Yertle.  "Say, what IS that thing
That dares to be higher than Yertle the King?
I shall not allow it! I'll go higher still!
I'll build my throne higher! I can and I will!
I'll call some more turtles.  I'll stack 'em to heaven!
I need 'bout five thousand, six hundred and seven!"

But, as Yertle, the Turtle King, lifted his hand
And started to order and give the command,
That plain little turtle below in the stack,
That plain little turtle whose name was just Mack,
Decided he'd taken enough.  And he had.
And that plain little lad got a bit mad.
And that plain little Mack did a plain little thing.
He burped!
And his burp shook the throne of the king!

And Yertle the Turtle, the king of the trees,
The king of the air and the birds and the bees,
The king of a house and a cow and a mule...
Well, that was the end of the Turtle King's rule!
For Yertle, the King of all Sala-ma-Sond,
Fell off his high throne and fell Plunk! in the pond!

And tosay the great Yertle, that Marvelous he,
Is King of the Mud.  That is all he can see.
And the turtles, of course... all the turtles are free
As turtles and, maybe, all creatures should be.

When I was quite young
and quite small for my size,
I met an old man in the desert of Drize.
And he sang me a song I will never forget.
At least, well, I haven't forgotten it yet.

He sat in a terribly prickly place.
But he sang with a sunny sweet smile on his face.

When you think things are bad,
when you feel sour and blue,
when you start to get mad
you should do what I do!

Just tell yourself, Duckie,
you're really quite lucky!
Some people are much more
oh, ever so much more
oh, muchly much-much more
unlucky than you!

Be glad you don't work on the Bunglebung Bridge
that they're building across Boober Bay at Bumm Ridge.

It's a troublesome world. All the people who're in it
are troubled with troubles almost every minute.
You ought to be thankful, a whole heaping lot,
for the places and people you're lucky you're not!

Just suppose for example,
you lived in Ga-Zayt
and got caught in the traffic
on Zaty Highway Eight!

Or suppose,
just for instance,
you lived in Ga-Zair
with your bedroom up here
and your bathroom up THERE!

Suppose, just suppose, you were poor Herbie Hart,
who has taken his Throm-dim-bu-lator apart!
He never will get it together, I'm sure.
He never will know if the Gick or the Goor
fits into the Skrux or the Snux or the Snoor.
Yes, Duckie, you're lucky you're not Herbie Hart
who has taken his Throm-dim-bu-lator apart!

Think they work you too hard?
Think of poor Ali Sard!
He has to mow grass in his uncle's back yard
and it's quick-growing grass
and it grows as he mows it.
The faster he mows it, the faster he grows it.
And all that his stingy old uncle will pay
for his shoving that mower around in the hay
is the piffulous pay of two Dooklas a day.
And Ali can't live on such piffulous pay!

SO

He has to paint flagpoles
on Sundays in Grooz.
How lucky you are
you don't live in his shoes!

And poor Mr. Bix!
Every morning at six,
poor Mr. Bix has his Borfin to fix!

It doesn't seem fair. It just doesn't seem right,
but his Borfin just seems to go shlump every night.
It shlumps in a heap, sadly needing repair.
Bix figures it's due to the local night air.

It takes him all day to un-shlump it.
And then
the night air comes back
and it shlumps once again!

So don't you feel blue. Don't get down in the dumps.
You're lucky you don't have a Borfin with shlumps.

And, while we are at it, consider the Schlottz,
the Crumple-horn, Web-footed, Green-bearded Schlottz,
whose tail is entailed with un-solvable knots.

If he isn't muchly
more worse off than you,
I'll eat my umbrella.
That's just what I'll do.

And you're lucky, indeed, you don't ride a camel.
To ride on a camel, you sit on a wamel.
A wamel, you know, is a sort of a saddle
held on by a button that's known as a faddle.
And, boy! If your old wamel-faddle gets loose,
I'm telling you, Duckie, you're gone like a goose.

And poor Mr. Potter,
T-crosser,
I-dotter.
He has to cross t's
and he has to dot i's
in an I-and-T factory
out in Van Nuys!

Oh, the jobs people work at!
Out west, near Hawtch-Hawtch,
there's a Hawtch-Hawtcher Bee-Watcher.
His job is to watch
is to keep both his eyes on the lazy town bee.
A bee that is watched will work harder, you see.

Wellhe watched and he watched.
But, in spite of his watch,
that bee didn't work any harder. Not Mawtch.

So somebody said,
"Our old-bee-watching man
just isn't bee-watching as hard as he can.
He ought to be watched by another Hawtch-Hawtcher!
The thing that we need
is a Bee-Watcher-Watcher!"
WELL

The Bee-Watcher-Watcher watched the Bee-Watcher.
He didn't watch well. So another Hawtch-Hawtcher
had to come in as a Watch-Watcher-Watcher!
And today all the Hawtchers who live in Hawtch-Hawtch
are watching on Watch-Watcher-Watchering-Watch,
Watch-Watching the Watcher who's watching the bee.
You're not a Hawtch-Watcher. You're lucky, you see!

And how fortunate you're not Professor de Breeze
who has spent the past thirty-two years, if you please,
Trying to teach Irish ducks how to read Jivvanese.

And think of the
poor puffing Poogle-Horn Players,
who have to parade
down the Poogle-Horn Stairs
every morning to wake up
the Prince of Poo-Boken.
It's awful how often
their poogles get broken!

And, oh! Just suppose
you were poor Harry Haddow.
Try as he will
he can't make any shadow!

He thinks that, perhaps, something's wrong with his Gizz.
And I think that, by golly, there probably is.

And the Brothers Ba-zoo.
The poor Brothers Ba-zoo!
Suppose your hair grew
like theirs happened to do!
You think your unlucky?
I'm telling you, Duckie,
some people are muchly,
oh, ever so muchly,
muchly more-more-more unlucky than you!

And suppose that you lived in that forest in France,
where the average young person just hasn't a chance
to escape from the perilous pants-eating-plants!
But your pants are safe! you're a fortunate guy.
And you ought to be shouting, "How lucky am I!"

And , speaking of plants,
you should be greatly glad-ish
you're not Farmer Falkenberg's
seventeenth radish.

And you're so, so lucky
you're not Gucky Gown,
who lives by himself
ninety miles out of town,
in the Ruins of Ronk.
Ronk is rather run-down.

And you're so, so, So lucky
you're not a left sock,
left behind by mistake
in the Kaverns of Krock!

Thank goodness for all of the things you are not!
Thank goodness you're not something someone forgot,
and left all alone in some punkerish place
like a rusty tin coat hanger handing in space.

That's why I say, "Duckie!
Don't grumble! Don't stew!
Some critters are much-much,
oh, ever so much-much,
so muchly much-much more unlucky than you!"

One fish, Two fish, Red fish, Blue fish,
Black fish, Blue fish, Old fish, New fish.
This one has a littlecar.
This one has a little star.
Say! What a lot of fish there are.
Yes. Some are red, and some are blue.
Some are old and some are new.
Some are sad, and some are glad,
And some are very, very bad.
Why are they sad and glad and bad?
I do not know, go ask your dad.
Some are thin, and some are fat.
The fat one has a yellow hat.
From there to here,
From here to there,
Funny things are everywhere.
Here are some who like to run.
They run for fun in the hot, hot sun.
Oh me! Oh my! Oh me! oh my!
What a lot of funny things go by.
Some have two feet and some have four.
Some have six feet and some have more.
Where do they come from? I can't say.
But I bet they have come a long, long way.
we see them come, we see them go.
Some are fast. Some are slow.
Some are high. Some are low.
Not one of them is like another.
Don't ask us why, go ask your mother.

Say! Look at his fingers!
One, two, three...
How many fingers do I see?
One, two, three, four,
five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten.
He has eleven!
Eleven! This is something new.
I wish I had eleven too!

Bump! Bump! Bump!
Did you ever ride a Wump?
We have a Wump with just one hump.
But we know a man called Mr. Gump.
Mr. gump has a seven hump Wump. So...
If you like to go Bump! Bump!
Just jump on the hump of the Wump of Gump

Who am I? My name is Ned
I do not like my little bed.
This is no good. This is not right.
My feet stick out of bed all night.
And when I pull them in, Oh, Dear!
My head sticks out of bed up here!

We like our bike. It is made for three.
Our Mike sits up in back, you see.
We like our Mike, and this is why:
Mike does all the work when the hills get high.

Hello there, Ned. How do you do?
Tell me, tell me what is new?
How are things in your little bed?
What is new? Please tell me Ned.
I do not like this bed at all.
a lot of things have come to call.
A cow, a dog, a cat, a mouse.
Oh! What a bed! Oh! What a house!

Oh dear, oh dear! I cannot hear.
Will you please come over near?
Will you please look in my ear?
There must be something there, I fear.
Say look! A bird was in your ear.
But he is out. So have no fear.
Again your ear can hear, my dear.

My hat is old, my teeth are gold.
I have a bird I like to hold.
My shoe is off, my foot is cold.
My shoe is off, my foot is cold.
I have a bird I like to hold.
My hat is old, my teeth are gold.
And now my story is all told.

We took a look. We saw a Nook.
On his head he had a hook.
On his hook he had a book.
On his book was "How to Cook"
We saw him sit and try to cook
But a Nook can't read, so a Nook can't Cook.
SO...
What good to a Nook is a hook cook book?

the moon was out and we saw some sheep.
We saw some sheep take a walk in their sleep.
by the light of the moon, by the light of a star;
They walked all night from near to far.
I would never walk. I would take a car.

I do not like this one so well.
all he does is yell, yell, yell.
I will not have this one about.
When he comes in I put him out.
This one is quiet as a mouse.
I like to have him in the house.

At our house we open cans.
We have to open many cans.
and that is why we have a Zans.
A Zans for cans is very good.
Have you a Zans for cans? You should.

I like to box. How I like to box.
So every day I box a Gox.
In yellow socks I box my Gox.
I box in yellow Gox box socks.

It is fun to sing if you sing with a Ying.
My Ying can sing like anything.
I sing high and my Ying sings low.
And we are not too bad, you know.

this one, I think, is called a Yink.
he likes to wink, he likes to drink.
He likes to drink, and drink, and drink.
the thing he likes to drink is ink.
The ink he likes to drink is pink.
He likes to wink and drink pink ink.
SO...
If you have a lot of ink,
you should get a Yink, I think.

Hop, hop, hop! I am a Yop
All I like to do is hop,
From finger top to finger top.
I hop from left to right and then...
Hop, hop! I hop right back again.
I like to hop all day and night.
From right to left and left to right.
Why do I like to hop, hop, hop?
I do not know. Go ask your Pop.

Brush, brush, brush, brush
Comb, comb, comb, comb
Blue hair is fun to brush and comb.
All girls who like to brush and comb,
Should have a pet like this at home.

Who is this pet? Say! He is wet.
You never yet met a pet, I bet,
As wet as they let this wet pet get.

Did you ever fly a kite in bed?
did you ever walk with ten cats on your head?
Did you ever milk this kind of cow?
Well, we can do it. We know how.
If you never did, you should.
These things are fun, and fun is good.

Hello, hello. Are you there?
Hello! I called you up to say hello.
I said Hello.
Can you hear me, Joe?
Oh no, I cannot hear your call.
I cannot hear your call at all.
This is not good, and I know why.
A mouse has cut the wire, goodbye!

From near to far, from here to there,
Funny things are everywhere.
These yellow pets are called the Zeds.
They have one hair upon their heads.
Their hair grows fast. So fast they say,
They need a haircut every day.

Who am I? My name is Ish
On my hand I have a dish.
I have this dish to help me wish.
When I wish to make a wish
I wave my hand with a big swish swish.
Then I say, "I wish for fish!"
And I get fish right on my dish.
So...
If you wish to make a wish,
you may swish for fish with my Ish wish dish.

At our house we play out back.
We play a game called ring the Gack.
Would you like to play this game?
Come down! We have the only Gack in town.

Look what we found in the park in the dark.
We will take him home, we will call him Clark.
He will live at our house, he will grow and grow.
Will our mother like this? We don't know.

And now, Good night.
It is time to sleep
So we will sleep with our pet Zeep.
Today is gone. Today was fun.
Tomorrow is another one.
Every day, from here to there.
funny things are everywhere.

I've always lived in Dinkerville,
My friends all live there too.
We go to Diffendoofer School-
We're happy that we do.


Our school is at the corner of Dinkzoober and Dinkzott.
It looks like any other school, but we suspect it's not.
I think we're learning lots of things not taught at other schools.
Our teachers are remarkable, they make up their own rules.

Miss Bobble teaches listening,
Miss Wobble teaches smelling,
Miss Fribble teaches laughing,
And Miss Quibble teaches yelling.

Miss Twining teaches tying knots in neckerchiefs and noodles,
And how to tell chrysanthemums from miniature poodles.

Miss Vining teaches all the ways a pigeon may be peppered,
And how to put a saddle on a lizard or a leopard.

My teacher is Miss Bonkers,
She's as bouncy as a flea.
I'm not certaine what she teaches,
But I'm glad she teaches me.

"Look! Look!" she chirps. "I'll show you how to tell a cactus from a cow,
And then I shall instruct you why a hippo cannot hope to fly."

She even teaches frogs to dance,
And pigs to put on underpants.
One day she taught a duck to sing-
Miss Bonkers teaches EVERYTHING!

Of all the teachers in our school,
I like Miss Bonkers best.
Our teachers are all different,
But she's different-er than the rest.

We also have a principal, his name is Mr. Lowe.
He is the very saddest man that any of us know.
He mumbles, "Are they learning this and that and such and such?
His face is wrinkled as a prune from worrying so much.

He breaks a lot of pencil points from pushing down too hard,
and many dogs start barking as he mopes around the yard.
We think he wears false eyebrows.In fact, we're sure it's so.
We've heard he takes them off at night...I guess we'll never know.

But we know he like Miss Bonkers, he treats her like a queen.
He's always there to watch her when she's on her trampoline.

There are many other people who make Diffendoofer run.
They are utterly amazing-I love every single one.

Our nurse, Miss Clotte, knows what to do when we'ver got sniffles or the flu.
One day I had a splinter, so she bandaged me from head to toe.
Mr. Plunger, our custodian, has fashione a machine-
a super-zooper-flooper-do-it keeps the whole school clean.

Our music teacher, Mrs.Fox, makes bagpipes out of straws and socks.
Our art instructor, Mr. Beeze, paints pictures hanging by his knees.

In science class with Mr. Katz, we learn to build robotic rats.
In gym we watch as Mr. Bear hoists elephants into the air.

Miss Loon is our librarian, she hides behind the shelves,
and often cries out, "LOUDER!" shen we're reading to ourselves.

We have three cooks, all named McMunch who merrily prepare our lunch.
They make us hot dogs, beans and fries, plus things we do not recognized.
And as they cook, they sing their song, not too short and not too long.
"Roast and toast and slice and dice, cooking lunch is oh so nice."

We were eating their concoctions, telling jokes and making noise,
when Mr. Lowe appeared and howled, "Attention, girls and boys!"

He began to fuss and fidget, scratch and mutter, sneeze and cough.
He shook his head so hard, we thought his eyebrows would come off.
He wrung his hangs, he cleared his throat, he shed a single tear:
then sobbed, "I've somthing to announce, and that is why I'm here."

"All schools for miles and miles around must take a special test,
To see who's learning such and such-to see which school's the best.
If our small school does not do well, then it will be torn down,
And you will have to go to school in dreary Flobbertown."

"Not Flobbertown!" we shouted, and we shuddered at the name,
for  everyone in Flobbertown does everything the same.

It's miserable in Flobbertown, they dress in just one style.
They sing one song, they never dance, they march in single file.
They do not have a playground. And they do not have a park.
Their lunches have no taste at all, their dogs are scared to bark.

We sat in shock and disbelief. "Oh no!" we moaned. "Oh no!"
We were even more unhappy than unhappy Mr. Lowe.
But then the test was handed out. "Yahoo!" we yelled. "Yahoo!"
For it was filled with all the things that we all knew we knew.

There were questions about noodles, and poodles and frogs and yelling,
about listening and laughing, and chrysanthemums and smelling.
There were questions about other things we'd never seen or heard,
and yet we somehow answered them, enjoying every word.

One week later, after recess, Mr. Lower meandered in.
We'd never seen him smile before, but now he wore a grin.
He soon began to giggle, then his giggle grew by half,
and then it really happened- Mr. Lowe began to laugh.

"You've saved our school! You've saved our school!" He jubilantly roared.
"we got the very highest score!" He wrote it on the board.

Miss Bonkers did some cartwheels till her face turned cherry red.
She bounded up to Mr. Lowe and kissed him on the head.
"Hooray! Hooray!" she shouted. "I'm so proud I cannot speak."
So she did another cartwheel, and she peck him on the cheek.

"Ahem! Ahem!" coughed Mr. Lowe.
"You all deserve a bow. I thus declare a holiday-it starts exactly now.
Because you've done so splendidly in every sort of way,
This day forever shall be known as Diffendoofer Day.
And furthermore, I promise I won't evcer wear a frown.
For now I know we'll never go to dreaty Flobbertown."

Then we held a celebration, there was pizza, milk and cake.
Like everyone, I ate too much and got a bellyache.
We laughed and whooped and hollered the entire school day long,
then we all sang, triumphantly, "The Diffendoofer Song."

We love you, Diffendoofer School, We definitely do.
There surely is no other school that's anything like you.
You're gribbulous, you're grobbulous, each day we love you more.
You are the school we treasure and unceasingly adore.

Oh, finest school in Dinkerville-the only one as well-
We love you, Diffendoofer School, much more than we can tell.
You are so diffendooferouse It gives us joy to say,
Three cheers for Diffendoofer School- Hooray, Hooray, Hooray!!!

Sighed Mayzie, a lazy bird hatching an egg:
"I'm tired and I'm bored
And I've kinks in my leg
From sitting, just sitting here day after day.
It's work! How I hate it!
I'd much rather play!
I'd take a vacation, fly off for a rest
If I could find someone to stay on my nest!
If I could find someone, I'd fly away-free..."

Then Horton, the Elephant, passed by her tree.
"Hello!" called the lazy bird, smiling her best,
"You've nothing to do and I do need a rest.
Would you like to sit on the egg in my nest?"
The elephant laughed.
"Why, of all silly things!
I haven't feathers and I haven't wings.
Me on your egg? Why, that doesn't make sense...
Your egg is so small, ma'am, and I'm so immense!"

"Tut, tut," answered Mayzie. "I know you're not small
But I'm sure you can do it. No trouble at all.
Just sit on it softly. You're gentle and kind.
Come, be a good fellow. I know you won't mind."

"I can't," said the elephant
"PL-E-E-ASE!" begged the bird.
"I won't be gone long, sir. I give you my word.
I'll hurry right back. Why, I'll never be missed...."
"Very well," said the elephant, "since you insist...
You want a vacation. Go fly off and take it.
I'll sit on your egg and I'll try not to break it.
I'll stay and be faithful. I mean what I say."
"Toodle-oo!" sang out Mayzie and fluttered away.
"H-m-m-m..the first thing to do," murmured Horton,
"Let's see...
The first thing to do is to prop up this tree
And make it much stronger. That has to be done
Before I get on it. I must weigh a ton."
Then carefully,
Tenderly,

Gently he crept
Up the trunk to the nest where the little egg slept.
Then Horton the elephant smiled. "Now that's that..."
And he sat
And he sat
And he sat
And he sat....

And he sat all that day
And he kept the egg warm...
And he sat all that night
Through a terrible storm.
It poured and it lightninged!
It thundered! It rumbled!
"This isn't much fun,"
The poor elephant grumbled.
"I wish she'd come back
ëCause I'm cold and I'm wet.
I hope that that Mayzie bird doesn't forget."

But Mayzie, by this time, was far beyond reach,
Enjoying the sunshine way off in the Palm Beach,
And having such fun, such a wonderful rest,
Decided she'd never go back to her nest!
So Horton kept sitting there, day after day.
And soon it was Autumn. The leaves blew away.
And then came the Winter...the snow and the sleet!
And icicles hung
From his trunk and his feet.
But Horton kept sitting, and said with a sneeze,
"I'll stay on this egg and I won't let it freeze.
I meant what I said
And I said what I meant...
An elephant's faithful
One hundred per cent!"

So poor Horton sat there
The whole winter through...
And then came the springtime
With troubles anew!
His friends gathered round
And they shouted with glee.

"Look! Horton the Elephant's up in a tree!"

They taunted, they teased him,
They yelled, "How Absurd!"
"Old Horton the Elephant
Thinks hE's a bird!"

They Laughed the they Laughed, Then they al ran away.
And Horton was lonely. He wanted to play
but he sat on the egg and continued to say
"I meant what I said
And I said what I meant...
An elephant's faithful
One hundred per cent!
"No matter What happens,
This egg must be tended!"
But poor Horton's troubles
Were far, far from ended
For, while Horton sat there
So faithful, so kind,
Three hunters came sneaking
Up softly behind!

He heard the men's footsteps!
He turned with a start!
Three rifles were aiming
Right strait at his heart!
Did he run?
He did not!
HORTON STAYED ON THAT NEST
He held his head high
And he threw out his chest
And he looked at the hunters
As much as to say:
"Shoot if you must
But I won't run away!
I meant what I said
And I said what I meant...
An elephant's faithfulOne hundred per cent!
But the men didn't shoot!
Much to Horton's surprise
They dropped their three guns
And they stared with wide eyes!
"look!" they all shouted,
"Can such a thing be?
An elephant sitting on top of a tree..."

"It's strange! It's amazing! It's wonderful! New!
Don't shoot him. We'll catch him. That's just what we'll do!
Let's take him alive. Why, he's terribly funny!
We'll sell him back to a circus, for money!"
And the first thing he knew, they had built a big wagon
With ropes on the front for the pullers to drag on.
They dug up his tree and they put it inside,
With Horton so sad that he practically cried.
"we're off!" the men shouted. And off they all went
With Horton unhappy, one hundred per cent.
Up out of the jungle! Up into the sky!
Up over the mountains ten thousand feet high!
Then down, down the mountains
And down to the sea
Went the cart with the elephant,
Egg, nest and tree...

Then out of the wagon
And onto a ship!
Out over the ocean...
And ooh, what a trip!
Rolling and tossing and splashed with the spray!
And Horton said, day after day after day,
"I meant what I said
And I said what I meant...
But oh, am I seasick!

After bobbing around for two weeks like a cork,
They landed at last in the town of New York.
"All ashore!" the men shouted,
And down with a lurch
Went Horton the Elephant
Still on his perch,
Tied onto a board that could just scarcely hold him...
Bump!
Horton landed!
And then the men sold him!

Sold to a circus! Then week after week
They showed him to people at ten cents a peek.
They took him to Boston, to Kalamazoo,
Chicago, Weehawken and Washington, too;
To Dayton, Ohio; St. Paul, Minnesota;
To Wichita, Kansas; to Drake, North Dakota.
And everywhere thousands of folks flocked to see
And laugh at the elephant up in a tree.
Poor Horton grew sadder the farther he went,
But he said as he sat in the hot noisy tent:
"I meant what I said, and I said what I meant...
An elephant's faithfulóone hundred per cent!"

Then...one day
The circus show happened to reach
A town way down south, not so far from Palm Beach.
And, dawdling along way up high in the sky,
Who (of all people!) should chance to fly by
But that old good-for-nothing bird, runaway Mayzie!
Still on vacation and still just as lazy.
And, spying the flags and the tents just below,
She sang out, "What fun! Why, I'll go to the show!"

And she swooped from the clouds
Through an open tent door...
"Good gracious!" gasped Mayzie,
"I've seen you before!"
Poor Horton looked up with his face white as chalk!
He started to speak, but before he could talk...
There rang out the noisiest ear-splitting squeaks
From the egg that he'd sat on for fifty-one weeks!
A thumping! A Bumping! A wild alive scratching!
"My egg!" Shouted Horton. "My egg! Why, it's hatching!"

"But it's Mine!" screamed the bird, when she heard the egg crack.
(the work was all done. Now she wanted it back.)
"It's my egg!" she sputtered. "You stole it from me!
Get off of my nest and get out of my tree!"
Poor Horton backed down
With a sad, heavy heart...

But at that very instant, the egg burst apart!
And out of the pieces of red and white shell,
From the egg that he'd sat on so long and so well,
Horton the Elephant saw something whizz!
It had Ears
And a Tail
And a trunk just like his!

And the people came shouting, "what's all this about...?"
They looked! And they stared with their eyes popping out!
Then they cheered and they cheered and they cheered more and more.
They'd never seen anything like it before!
"My goodness! My gracious!" they shouted. "My Word!
It's something brand new!
It's an elephant-bird!!
And it should be, it should be, it should be like that!
Because Horton was faithful! He sat and he sat!
He meant what he said
And he said what he meant..."
...And they sent him home
Happy,
One hundred per cent!

The news just came in
from the County of Keck
That a very small bug
by the name of Van Vleck
is yawning so wide
you can look down his neck.

This may not seem
very important, I know.
But it IS. So I'm bothering
telling you so.

A yawn is quite catching, you see. Like a cough.
It just takes one yawn to start other yawns off.
NOW the news has come in that some friends of Van Vleck's
are yawning so wide you can look down their necks.

A yawn is quite catching, you see. Like a cough.
It just takes one yawn to start other yawns off.
NOW the news has come in that some friends of Van Vleck's
are yawning so wide you can look down their necks.

At this moment, right now,
Under seven more noses,
Great yawns are in blossom.
They're blooming like roses.

The yawn of that one little bug is still spreading!
According to latest reports, it is heading
Across the wide fields, through the sleepy night air,
Across the whole country toward every-which-where.
And people are gradually starting to say,

"I feel rather drowsy. I've had quite a day."

Creatures are starting to think about rest.
Two Biffer-Baum Birds are now building their nest.
They do it each night. And quite often I wonder
How they do this big job without making a blunder.
But that is their problem.
Not yours. And not mine.
The point is: They're going to bed.
And that's fine.

Sleep thoughts
Are spreading
Throughout the whole land.
The time for night-brushing of teeth is at hand.
Up at Herk-Heimer Falls, where the great river rushes
And crashes down crags in great gargling gushes,
The Herk-Heimer Sisters are using their brushes.
Those falls are just grand for tooth-brushing beneath
If you happen to be up that way with your teeth.

The news just came in from the Castle of Krupp
That the lights are all out and the drawbridge is up.
And the old drawbridge draw-er just said with a yawn,
"My drawbridge is drawn and it's going to stay drawn
ëTil the milkman delivers the milk, about dawn.
I'm going to bed now. So nobody better
Come round with a special delivery letter."

The number
Of sleepers
Is steadily growing.
Bed is where
More and more people are going.
In Culpepper Springs, in the Stilt-Walkers' Hall,
The stilt-walkers' stilts are all stacked on the wall.
The stilt-walker walkers have called it a day.
They're all tuckered out and they're snoozing away.
This is very big news. It's important to know.
And that's why I'm bothering telling you so.

Way out in the west, in the town of Mercedd,
The Hinkle-Horn Honking Club just went to bed.
Every horn has been quietly hung on a hook,
For the night, in its own private Hinkle-Horn Nook.
All this long, happy day, they've been honking about
And the Hinkle-Horn Honkers have honked themselves out.
But they'll wake up quite fresh in the morning. And then...
They'll start right in Hinkle-Horn honking again.

Everywhere, creatures
Are falling asleep.
The Collapsible Frink
Just collapsed in a heap.
And, by adding the Frink
To the others before,
I am able to give you
The Who's-Asleep-Score:

Right now, forty thousand
Four hundred and four
Creatures are happily,
Deeply in slumber.
I think you'll agree
That's a whopping fine number.

Counting up sleepers...?
Just how do we do it...?
Really quite simple. There's nothing much to it.
We find out how many, we learn the amount
By an Audio-Telly-o-Tally-o Count.
On a mountain, halfway between Reno and Rome,
We have a machine in a plexiglass dome
Which listens and looks into everyone's home.
And whenever it sees a new sleeper go flop,
It jiggles and lets a new Biggel-Ball drop.
Our chap counts these balls as they plup in a cup.
And that's how we know who is down and who's up.

Do you talk in your sleep...?
It's a wonderful sport
And I have some news of this sport to report.
The World-Champion Sleep-Talkers, Jo and Mo Redd-Zoff,
Have just gone to sleep and they're talking their heads off.
For fifty-five years, now, each chattering brother
Has babbled and gabbled all night to the other.
They've talked about laws and they've talked about gauze.
They've talked about paws and they've talking about flaws.

They've talked quite a lot about old Santa Clause.
And the reason I'm telling you this is because
You should take up this sport. It's just fine for the jaws.

Do you walk in your sleep...?
I just had a report
Of some interesting news of this popular sport.
Near Finnigan Fen, there's a sleepwalking group
Which not only walks, but it walks a-la-hoop!
Every night they go miles. Why, they walk to such length
They have to keep eating to keep up their strength.
So, every so often, one puts downs his hoop,
Stops hooping and does some quick snooping for soup.
That's why they are known as the Hoop-Soup-Snoop Group.

Sleepwalking, too, are the Curious Crandalls
Who sleepwalk on hills with assorted-sized candles.
The Crandalls walk nightly in slumbering peace
In spite of slight burns from the hot dripping grease.
The Crandalls wear candles because they walk far
And, if they wake up,
Want to see where they are.

Now the news has arrived
From the Valley of Vail
That a Chippendale Mupp has just bitten his tail,
Which he does every night before shutting his eyes.
Such nipping sounds silly. But, really, it's wise.
He has no alarm clock. So this is the way

He makes sure that he'll wake at the right time of day.
His tail is so long, he won't feel any pain
ëTil the nip makes the trip and gets up to his brain.
In exactly eight hours, the Chippendale Mupp
Will, at last, feel the bit and yell "Ouch!" and wake up.

A Mr. and Mrs. J. Carmichael Krox
Have just gone to bed near the town of Fort Knox.
And they, by the way, have the finest of clocks.
I'm not at all sure that I quite quite understand
Just how the thing works, with that one extra hand.
But I do know this clock does one very slick trick.
It doesn't tick tock. How it goes, is tock tick.
So, with ticks in its tocker, and tocks in its ticker
It saves lots of time and the sleepers sleep quicker.

What a fine night for sleeping! From all that I hear,
It's the best night for sleeping in many a year.
They're even asleep in the Zwieback Motel!
And people don't usually sleep there too well.
The beds are like rocks and, as everyone knows,
The sheets are too short. They won't cover your toes.
SO, if people are actually sleeping in THERE...
It's a great night for sleeping! It must be the air.

It's a great night for snores! I just had a report
Of some boys who are tops in this musical sport.
The snortiest snorers in all our fair land
Are Snorter McPhail and his Snore-a-Snort Band.
This band can snore Dixie and old Swanee River
So loud it would make forty elephants shiver.
The loudest of all the boys is McPhail.
HE snores with his head in a three-gallon pail.
So they snore in a cave twenty miles out of town.
If they snored closer in, they would snore the town down.

Do you know who's asleep
Out in Foona-Lagoona...?
Two very nice Foona-Lagoona Baboona.
We've added them into our Who's-Asleep Count
Which has grown to a really amazing amount.
Exactly eight million, eight hundred and eight
Creatures are sleeping now! Isn't that great!

A Jedd is in bed,
And the bed of a Jedd
Is the softest
Of beds in the world,
It is said.
He makes it from pom poms
He grows on his head.
And he's sleeping right now
On the softest of fluff,
Completely exhausted
From growing the stuff.

The news has come in from the District of Dofft
That two Offt are asleep and they're sleeping aloft.
And how are they able to sleep off the ground...?
I'll tell you. I weighed on last week and I found
That an Offt is SO light he weighs minus one pound!

A moose is asleep.
He is dreaming of moose drinks.
A goose is asleep.
He is dreaming of goose drinks.
That's well and good when a moose dreams of moose juice.
And nothing goes wrong when a goose dreams of goose juice.
But it isn't too good when a moose and a goose
Start dreaming they're drinking the other one's juice.
Moose juice, not goose juice, is juice for a moose
And goose juice, not moose juice, is juice for a goose.
So, when goose gets a mouthful of juices of moose's
And moose gets a mouthful of juices of goose's
They always fall out of their beds screaming screams.
SO...
I'm warning you, now! Never drink in your dreams.

Speaking of dreaming,
I think you should note
That the Bumble-Tub Club Is now dreaming afloat.
Every night they go dreaming down Bumble-Tub Creek
Except for one night, every third or fourth week,
When they stop for repairs. ëCause their bumble-tubs leak
But tonight they're afloat, full of dreams, full of bliss,
And that's why I'm bothering telling you this.

At the fork of a road
In the Vale of Va-Vode
Five foot-weary salesmen have laid down their load.
All day they've raced round in the heat, at top speeds,
Unsuccessfully trying to sell Zizzer-Zoof Seeds
Which nobody wants because nobody needs.
Tomorrow will come. They'll go back to their chore.
They'll start on the road, Zizzer-Zoofing once more
But tonight they've forgotten their feet are so sore,
And that's what the wonderful night time is for.

Everywhere,
Creatures
Have shut off their voices.
They've all gone to bed
In the beds of their choices.
They're sleeping in bushes. They're sleeping in crannies.
Some on their stomachs, and some on their fannies.
They're peacefully sleeping in comfortable holes.
Some, even, on soft-tufted barber shop poles.
The number of sleepers is now past the millions!
The number of sleepers is now in the billions!

They're sleeping on steps! And on strings! And on floors!
In mailboxes, ships, and the keyholes of doors!
Every worm on a fishhook is safe for the night.
Every fish in the sea is too sleepy to bite.
Every whale in the ocean has turned off his spout.
Every light between here and Far Foodle is out.
And now, adding things up, we are way beyond billions!
Our Who's-Asleep-Score is now up in the Zillions!

Ninety-nine zillion,
Nine trillion and two
Creatures are sleeping!
So...
How about you?

Ninety-nine zillion,
Nine trillion and two
Creatures are sleeping!
So...
How about you?

Good night.
